# Searching Analysis
 Solution to searching analysis Csc236 University of ibadan computer science department
CSC 236 Practical Project on Search Algorithms (2021/2022 Session)

Linear search compares all elements in a list, whether sorted or unsorted, with the data being searched. If found, it returns the indexes where the data is found.
Binary search first divide a sorted list into roughly two equal sublist where the mid pointer will point to the middle element. The data being searched will then be compared with the element being pointed at by the mid pointer. If the two of them matched each other, then the search returns 1. Otherwise, the left or the right sublist is concentrated on recursively. In any case, the binary search algorithm can be implemented in recursive or non-recursive (iterative) mode.
John says the recursive binary search algorithm will definitely run faster than both linear and iterative binary search algorithms; simply because of the ways their algorithms behave as described above.
Tasks: The purpose of this project is for you to validate the hypothesis of John via running of experiments.
1. Create a variable sized list (arrays) that can take random integer values in the range 1 to 100, for the following sizes 50000, 100000, 250000, 500000 and 750000 2. Set up your energy or power meter to measure the energy consumed by the algorithms. 3. Run the Linear and Binary Search algorithms (both Recursive and Non-recursive) on the unsorted data by searching for 70 or any other (but must be a value in the range 1 – 100) in the lists. 4. Record the times taken to find the value in each of the data sizes in (1) and tabulate your results. 5. Record the energy consumed by the algorithms 6. Plot the graph of data size on the x-axis and time taken for the search on the y-axis 7. Plot the graph of data size on the x-axis and energy consumed by the algorithms on the y-axis 8. Copy the codes, tables and charts into a Microsoft Word document and Report your observation. Save the file with your group number, names and matric numbers in the document. 9. Now, choose to search for 120, a value outside the range (1 – 100) of values in the list. And repeat steps above. 10. Apply any sort routine to sort the data in the lists. 11. Repeat steps 2 to 9 above. 12. Compute the average times and energy consumed by each of the three algorithms on the different data, sorted or unsorted 13. Report your general observations and inferences 14. What can you now tell john on his hypotesis